Trying to get a sense of where you are on any large university campus can be difficult, and because the University of Florida has so much to offer to its students, it can feel daunting to find a place to start.

Anyone who’s ever spent a significant period of time on UF campus knows it takes about 30 seconds once classes have let out for the grounds to fill with students scurrying to their next class or rushing to catch the bus.

If you’re looking for a place on campus to get your work done, whether it’s taking a short break before your next class or tending to the eight hours of homework you’ve happened to let pile up, there certainly is no shortage of places to do so on campus. Library West and Marston are two of UF’s most popular libraries, also making them the most crowded.

With that being said, there also happens to be a Library East on UF campus, or Smathers Library, located right beside the one and only West, off University Avenue.

You might even miss it if you weren’t already looking, but Smathers creates the perfect atmosphere to get a bit of work done in the serenity of peace and quiet. The first floor of Smathers is intended for silent, individual study, which makes it one of the only spaces on campus you can step into silence. Sometimes, the noise is good.

It’s what gives this university color and life, but sometimes the kindest thing you can do for yourself is take a break.

If you need a minute to let your mind think about other things, take a few to explore the artifacts displayed opposite the booths in the hallway, or browse through the first floor’s Map & Imagery Library. You can also make your way up to the third floor for general study areas, where some talking is allowed, to graze through the Latin American and Caribbean Collection. You may even feel inspired once you return to your work.

Besides Library West and the Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, one of the most well-known places on UF campus is the Reitz Student Union.

It’s essentially a one-stop shop for UF students, housing the bookstore, plenty of dining options, student government, the career center, and even a full arcade, free to students with a valid Gator One ID. While the inside gets pretty busy during the lunch rush, the grass steps leading up to the south entrance make the perfect study spot on a sunny, fall afternoon.

While the breeze floats through the trees surrounding Green Pond, the mixture of students coming and going makes comfortable background noise as you sprawl out your belongings and start the studying.

It can get stuffy and cold staying locked up in the library for hours upon hours, tending to that history paper you have due at midnight or cramming for your exam next week. It’s also just a pleasant place to hang out when you’ve got some time to spare.

A bit of sunshine is all you really need sometimes.

If you’re in UF’s College of Journalism and Communications, then Weimer Hall is no foreign place, but it’s more than just a meeting place for some of your core classes.

Open to students of all majors, the third floor of Weimer Hall is one of the finest places on campus to get a bit of work done. The famous atrium of Weimer Hall is one of the most highly publicized images of the College of Journalism, making it somewhat known for the beautiful design.

What’s even better than admiring it from the ground floor of the courtyard, though, is getting away to the third floor of the building, where you can take in the view from a different perspective.

The space, although relatively small, also remains relatively quiet, making the desks and couches a divine place to be productive. It’s nearly impossible not to feel inspired when immersed in the workings of Weimer Hall, and it’s certainly a place worth getting to know.

Last but certainly not least, if you make your way east across 13th Street, you’ll come across Norman Hall. Home to the Education Library as well as classrooms and lecture halls, Norman is definitely much quieter than the rest of campus during the day due to its location you may technically consider “off-campus.”

When the weather allows for it, spending your study time outside in the courtyard of Norman is the easiest way to get work done while not feeling overwhelmed by your surroundings.

It’s also a good way to get the feeling of being a little more off campus while still being on UF grounds. It almost feels like the kind of secret you want to keep to yourself, although it’s a wonderful place to study with friends, as well.

Whether you thrive in social environments or prefer a little more quiet in your life, the University of Florida has a place for everyone.

Innovation, creativity and intelligence are constantly in the air when you’re surrounded by your fellow Gators. It’s the feeling you get when you’re doing what you love and knowing you’ve got the best opportunities to succeed in the palm of your hand.

Let these places inspire your drive to be exceptional in not only your work, but in creating a positive mindset and your place in the Gator Nation.