West: Lib West, otherwise known as Club West, is the most popular library on campus undoubtedly. This is the library you go to if you want to roam around searching for a spot for 20 minutes or more. My advice is to reserve a study room in advance. But warning: don't go to West if you don't look, at the very least, presentable. Because while roaming around for those 20 minutes, you're bound to see at least ten people you know. While personally I find this a burden, many love how facey you can be at West. Sit down with friends to study! Find people in the same class as you to study with! This library is the only to be open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. And what's the best part about West? The Starbucks downstairs. 

Marston: The well-known Science Library located in the heart of campus. Marston is like the grandpa to West. He's a little older as you can tell by the aged chairs, old wood cubbies and ancient carpet. Yet, this seems to give it a more cozy feel. I am one to go to Marston in slippers and pajama pants. It's not half as social as Club West, so you don't have to worry about appearances (aka this is where the biological engineers hangout-- the true nerds). Although not as social, I wouldn't say it can't get a bit crowded. The newly renovated lower level floor has great study rooms. And what's the best part? There's going to be a Starbucks opening on the second floor in the Spring semester!

The Law Library: Beautiful and enormous, you feel like you are at Harvard Law in this college. Not to mention I've noticed that beautiful people study law. It's a library full of Elles and Emmetts from Legally Blonde. Maybe sit next to a tall handsome graduate student and strike up a conversation? Or study. Yeah, you should probably study. Although it closes at 10 p.m., its a great day-time getaway. 

Architecture and Fine Arts Library: A hidden treasure! This library is a baby library. Yes, it is very small. However, it's the most intriguing library I've come across-- very spunky. In the middle of the room there is a two-level study area, designed like a bunk bed. You walk up a a few stairs and sit directly above the person below you in a cubby. Pretty neat! Those architects- conserving space and designing cool study areas. Go check it out; it's way better to see for yourself. 

Education Library: We all love Norman. It has a somewhat convenient parking garage fairly close if you can snag a spot. This is a pretty basic library that can fit a good amount of people and is close to sorority row. Leaving your sorority house and don't want to truck all the way to West? Poke your nose in Norman's library and save yourself a walk. It closes at 10 p.m. on weekdays as well. 

