Being a top five public university, students at UF study a lot, so knowing your study spot options is important in being able to get all of your work done and getting good grades in your classes.

Luckily, UF students have many options when it comes to where they want to study and meet for group projects. But, knowing which spot will accommodate your specific study style can be difficult.

Library West is a great study spot option for those who prefer to hunker down and cram for an exam in a very quiet space. Library West also has study rooms that students can rent for free and use to collaborate on group projects and hold study sessions. Library West is usually open very late, so it’s a great study spot for students who are night owls.

For more information about the libraries at the University of Florida, please visit the UF libraries website.

For students looking to work at a coffee shop that has the perfect amount of background noise, Opus Coffee is a great study spot option. Opus Coffee is always busy, so it can sometimes be difficult to snag a table, but if you do, you could stay here all day and get lots of work done. The coffee shop is close enough to campus that you can use the UF WiFi, and there is plenty of street parking for students who prefer to drive rather than walk.

The Education Library, also known as Norman, is a popular study spot for students in sororities because it is located in close proximity to Sorority Row. Norman is typically a very quiet library and has many different styles of tables, including booths, high-top tables and private study rooms, so you can pick a study space that works best for you.

Located right in front of Library West, Plaza of the Americas is the best outdoor study space on campus. On any given day, you can find students swinging in hammocks, reading on picnic blankets, and eating Krishna Lunch. With such unpredictable weather in Florida, if it’s sunny and nice outside, you can enjoy studying in Plaza of the Americas, and if it starts to rain, you can run inside Library West and continue studying there.

Newell Hall is located in the center of campus across from The Hub, and it’s a great late-night study spot for students who live on campus. Even if you don’t live on campus, Newell Hall is a nice open-concept study space that has free-to-use white boards and plenty of seating options on multiple levels. During exam season, Newell Hall gets full quickly, so be sure to get there earlier during this time.

The Reitz Student Union is one of the largest buildings on the UF campus, and it is filled with restaurants, meeting rooms, dance rooms, and many other spaces that enhance the UF student experience. The Reitz has many different areas that are perfect for studying, including the food court tables and booths, the downstairs lobby, and the outside patio that has tables and greenspace. The Reitz is a great spot to stop by after class and quickly study before your next class.

Located on the ground floor of Sweetwater, Daydreamer offers an elevated space to study for your exams, collaborate with friends and sip on hand-crafted drinks. With a variety of seating arrangements, you are sure to find the spot that fits you and your study routine just right.

