Centrally located with lots of study spaces, including group study rooms for reservation
Collections related to the humanities and social sciences, with lots of fiction available for fun too
Moving book stacks at the push of a button
Neat spaces, like the One Button Studio and Meditation and Prayer Room
Beautiful views of campus
One of the main hubs of undergrad student life!

Library West (also nicknamed by students as “Club West,” “Lib West,” or just “West“) is the humanities and social sciences library. Like all of the libraries in this guide, it is open to students of all majors; the collections, resources, and resident librarians are simply specific to the humanities and social sciences.

Lib West is the second largest library at UF with a capacity of about 1,600 people. In addition to finding students here doing classwork and studying for their exams, this library is a hub of undergraduate student life. On the loud floors, you’ll find students chatting and hanging out between classes over coffee. On the quiet floors, you’ll find people really focusing to get work done.

Library West is known for its variety of study spaces and its beautiful location between the Plaza of the Americas and Midtown.

Library West hosts lots of special events throughout the school year, especially during finals week. These include giving out coffee and donuts, inviting local therapy dogs to visit, hosting yoga classes, and arranging a “make your own healthy snack bag.”

You’ll also find pop-up events, giveaways, and book displays related to cultural observances, like Black History Month, and library topics, like Banned Books Week.

One especially cool event is the annual HalloWest! Library West workers are known to do internal trick-or-treating around Halloween. You don’t even have to dress up — the library workers are usually in costume and they hand out candy to students.

If you spot a pop-up table on the main floor or outside the front doors, stop by to get some special treats. Keep your eye out on the library social media channels to stay up to date with any events going on.

Library West has a study space for everyone. There are six floors, but only four are available for undergraduate student use. The fifth floor has offices and employee spaces; the sixth floor is restricted to just graduate students. There are gendered restrooms and water fountains on all floors, and a gender-inclusive restroom on the second floor.

Read on for a floor-by-floor breakdown of the resources and study spaces available in West: every floor has a different vibe!

First Floor
This floor can be confusing at first to access because it is the same floor as the ground-level entrance with the Starbucks, but you can’t enter the study areas from there. In order to access the space, you have to first go up to the second floor from the main entrance. Once on the second floor, take one of the elevators or stairwells in the corner of the floor down to the first floor, marked with a star.

On the first floor, you’ll find:

Tables and seating for solo and collaborative study
Fitness bike desks near the back and side walls
Big windows near the back with a view of University Avenue
General Collection books and the Judaica Collection
Computers, printers, and scanners
One Button Studio and Meditation and Prayer Room — see below for more information!

Second Floor
A conference table with eight chairs in a small room with green walls and a whiteboard. Outside the glass wall is the main floor of the library
Reserve group study rooms online before you head over to West.
This floor is the most collaborative in nature. Sounds from the Starbucks filter up, and it’s a great place to meet with friends or classmates. The second floor is also where the majority of the study rooms are, although the third and fourth floors also have some.

Take the escalator at the main entrance up to this floor, which includes:

The main Service Desk, where you can check out items and ask for help with library services
The Reference Desk, where you can walk up and ask a librarian for research assistance
Study rooms available for reservation online
Personal proctor rooms for online test-taking
Pro Tip: Reserve these online exam rooms in advance — they fill up fast!
Computers (both PC workstations and six Macs), printers, and scanners
More fitness bike desks facing the Plaza of the Americas
The beautiful New Books Wall and book displays
General Collection shelves and the DVD collection
An office supplies vending machine
Gorgeous views and plenty of places to sit and study!

Third Floor
The third floor of Library West also has both solo and collaborative spaces, though it is quieter than the second floor. It has windows around the entire perimeter and a generally open floor plan, creating a light and airy environment.

On the third floor you will find:

Physical copies of recent local and major newspapers
The Accessibility Studio (request access through the DRC)
Periodical and microform collections
Reference and oversized books collections
Plenty of seating!

Fourth floor
This is the quietest floor, so only go up there for quiet, individual study.

This floor mostly consists of administrative offices and solo seating scattered throughout the floor. You’ll also find small, locked cubicles reserved for graduate students who are writing their dissertation, which are inaccessible to undergrads.

Grab a seat up on the fourth floor if you really need to focus and get away from the busy, social floors below.

One Button Studio
A podium with a monitor. Behind it, a green screen and soundproof foam on the walls. Overhead, bright flood lights.
Record professional quality videos literally at the push of a button.
This is a video recording studio where, with the press of one button, you can have access to a green screen, professional lighting, and a professional recording. All you need to bring is a flash drive to save the final product (as well as any props you wish to use)!

This space is perfect for filming projects that require a more professional look, and it is super easy to use. The One Button Studio is commonly used for recording final presentations for courses, as well as for making videos just for fun.

The studio can be reserved in advance online. Follow the link below to reserve the space and get started!

Meditation and Prayer Room
Through an open door, a small room with one chair and two prayer mats laid on the floor
Meditation & Prayer Room.
This room is available by checking out a key at the main Service Desk on the second floor and can be used by up to four people at a time for a period of half an hour.

If you need a quiet place for prayer, meditation, and mindfulness, this space is always open to you.

Accessibility Studio
Students registered with the Disability Resource Center (DRC) on campus can request access to the Accessibility Studio at Library West. Once your Gator1 ID is activated, you’ll be able to swipe your card to enter the studio. This space features assistive technologies (including screen readers), adjustable large monitors, a trackball mouse, large keys keyboards, and more.

Collections & Technology
Library West’s collections include not just humanities and social sciences books and resources, but materials ranging from a DVD collection to a large and curated Jewish Studies collection. Compared to other areas of study, many humanities students prefer using physical books. That’s why Lib West has so many print materials.

Students from any major are welcome to explore these collections, especially the fun stuff! The librarians will always encourage you to check out items for your own curiosity or pleasure reading; you don’t need to be working on a research project to use the collections.

Research Assistance
Doing research for your classes at Library West is easier than you think. Because it is the humanities and social sciences library, students taking classes in these fields will most often use Lib West for their research and class projects.

Library West, like all the libraries, has subject librarians for every area of study you would need. The list of subjects covered in Library West can be found below, and you can find the contact information for subject librarians online. You can use physical collections or online resources like databases.

If in doubt, just walk up to the Reference Help Desk in West to ask for research assistance!

